We had to wait a long time, but yesterday
the 30th of January BlackBerry
finally announced their new
operating system BlackBerry 10
and the BlackBerry Z10 and Q10.
Here we have the BlackBerry Z10 in with us and that's the first BlackBerry OS10
device that will come to market, at the
moment the phone is in stores
in London and in the rest of England
and will be available later in February,
March and April
in other parts of the world.
It's not clear when it will launch in
The Netherlands, but we expect it
to be around March.
In this video we will take a first look
at BlackBerry 10
and the BlackBerry Z10.
It's some kind of prototype we have in
our hands
here,
it's a real production model, but for instance
we can not sell it. There's a big not for
sale on it
and we certainly won't do so, but we
can play around with it according to
BlackBerry.
This is a review model and we will test it thoroughly in the coming two weeks.
But first we will preview it for you,
because we have been able
to use it for a day now.
So we have quite some experience with it now.
The BlackBerry Z10
is a bit boring design wise,
it takes some clues from the iPhone from
the front,
on the back there's a big BlackBerry logo,
BlackBerry is not called Research in Motion
anymore, but really just
BlackBerry.
And as you see there's only a BlackBerry
logo on the back of the phone.
Off course there's a big BlackBerry logo
and the name of the company
underneath the screen and what stands out is
that the screen has pretty big bezels.
Certainly for a modern smartphone. The phone
has a 4.2" screen
with a resolution of 1280x768 pixels
and at the top
and the bottom it stands out there
is quite some space around the screen
and also the bezels are quite thick.
The screen it self is quite nice really,
it looks quite neat and reacts well
to touch imput. It has a good resolution
which is quite modern.
Not yet full HD, even if it's a 2013 smartphone
but anyway it's a fine resolution.
The back of the phone is made from
a rubbery material
which makes it nicer in hand,
the phone is a bit thick,
just a bit thicker than the iPhone actually,
but not really thick.
On the side there is a MicroUSB slot and an
HDMI
output,
so you can connect the phone to a beamer
or a television.
On top there is a powerbutton
and on the side there are volume buttons.
This volume buttons are pretty small,
and a bit hard to push.
If you push the two buttons at the same time,
the phone makes a screenshot.
Speaking of which, one of the most important
things in this phone is the fact
it runs on BlackBerry OS10.
BlackBerry worked for 2 years on OS10 now
since the acquisition of QNX, what runs on the PlayBook.
They started a new operating system.
BlackBerry 7, 6 and 5 were no longer up to date
anymore
and QNX should become the succesor of that.
The problem was QNX was delayed a lot,
it should have been released on the first phones in 2012. RIM didn't make that deadline
and now, 12 months later, we are finally there
and we have the BlackBerry Z10.
So the BlackBerry Z10 is the first phone,
there will also be a Q10
which is a version with a keyboard
and a touchscreen, and that one
will be a month or so later than the Z10.
The Z10 has a dualcore processor,
an 8 megapixel camera with 1080p resolution
and our first impression of this camera isn't really good.
The camera itself is a bit pixellated
and especially in the dark it's pretty bad.
In daylight it's normal, but as soon
as you turn on the nice functionalities
that BlackBerry promoted pretty heavily lately
that you take a photo of someone and you can adjust his face afterwards, that
photo is quite pixelated, so that's a pity and with that
BlackBerry seems to still not have the multimedia area sorted out.
BlackBerry has a new application store,
BlackBerry World, on this phone. And here you can buy apps, music
and also video.
The problem is that the music and video service work in England, but not
in The Netherlands so if you will use the phone in The Netherlands you can only buy apps,
so no video or music.
BlackBerry works hard to bring this service to other
country's,
so maybe we can use it during lauch, but at the moment that's not
possible.
BlackBerry 10 works kinda nice actually and the
cool thing is it doesn't use buttons to
control everything. It all works with swipes, from the edges. Namely the
right edge, left edge, top edge and bottom edge. You can activate every edge and
that will trigger something in the app.
The phone will be unlocked if you swipe up
over the lockscreen and
you can swipe left or right to view more applications or go to
multitasking for instance.
Really important is the hub functionality.
You can trigger that by going all left, which will open
all your notifications, some kind of notification centre actually.
You can also do that when you're in an application. If we start Twitter for instance,
and swipe up
and after that swipe right, then you will see a preview of all your
notifications.
That way you won't shut down the application, but you can view which notifications came in,
for instance emails, Twitter or Facebook messages.
Another nice thing is that the phone comes preinstalled with Twitter, Facebook,
Foursquare and LinkedIn and
all those applications work pretty good.
They are all native
apps
and we think they work better than for instance the applications which you can
find on Windows Phone 8 from these social networks. And that's a nice advantage.
Another thing is that the phone is pretty fast in use and shows
almost no lag with us.
It scrolls pretty fast,
apps open pretty fast, and faster than with competing platforms
apart from iOS and Android.
It's all pretty smooth and that's really nice. Also
the browser is really good.
It's one of the best browsers in a mobile phone OS,
which can compete with Google's Chrome browser on Android and the iOS browser
and is even a bit better than Internet Explorer 9 on Windows Phone 8.
We said a lot about this phone already,
our impressions of BlackBerry 10 and the BlackBerry Z10 are quite positive,
but there are a few small things.
We noticed some bugs in the first day of use, for instance that it wouldn't
load the settings menu or wouldn't always set up an email account and sometimes it crashed.
But in general the phone is quite fast, runs quite smoothly and just looks
really nice. Better than we expected actually. The question is whether it's enough
for BlackBerry, but we will hopefully answer that in our
comprehensive review that we will publish in two weeks
on our website and our video review on our YouTube channel.